# biling-noisy-channel

Repo for my ongoing research on bilingualism and the noisy channel theory of language processing.

This repo contains scripts for processing materials (audio and text files) and creating conditions files for PsychoPy experiments using these materials. This document describes how to run the scripts as-is, but the scripts have been written to be easily modifiable. 

## Research overview

My ongoing study, "Bilingualism and the Noisy Channel Theory of Language Processing", is a replication and extension of work by [Gibson et al. (2017)](https://doi.org/10.1177/0956797617690277). My study replicates a subset of Gibson et al.'s epxeriments. The extension comes from my introduction of a new variable, participant's linguistic background.

My study consists of four sub-experiments. In each sub-experiment, participants listen to recordings of 80 sentences and answer a yes/no comprehension question after each recording. Each sub-experiment uses a different set of materials.

The materials for this study are taken from [L2 noisy channel materials and results](https://osf.io/7c9bw/). Specifically, I use the sub-folders in "auditory materials" and the text files located in "Gibson et al 2013 materials".

## Scripts

The scripts located in the `/scripts` folder of this repo facilitate preparation of the experiments.

There are currently two scripts: 
1. `copy_audio.py`
2. `generate_condition_files.py`

These scripts should be run in the order specified above.

### `copy_audio.py`

This script generates four separate folders (`exp-A`, `exp-B`, `exp-C`, and `exp-D`; each is for a different sub-experiment) and adds the relevant experiment audio files to each folder.

To succeed, the script must be placed in a directory with a sibling folder called `audio`. The `audio` folder should contain the eight sub-folders listed under `auditory materials` on [L2 noisy channel materials and results](https://osf.io/7c9bw/).

If successful, each generated experiment folder should contain 80 audio files (60 fillers and 20 target recordings).

### `generate_condition_files.py`

This script generates four condition files (one for each sub-experiment) that can be used to run the experiments in PsychoPy.

This script depends on the existence of:
- the four sub-experiment folders generated by `copy_audio.py` 
- two text files (`base-fillers2.txt` and `dopo-to.txt`) taken from the "Gibson et al 2013 materials" section of [L2 noisy channel materials and results](https://osf.io/7c9bw/)

The script crawls through each sub-experiment folder and makes a list of the audio file names. It then looks up these stimuli (target or filler) in the respective text file to retrieve its comprehension question text and the correct answer to this question. Last, it outputs a spreadsheet containing four columns:
- trial_key
- audio_file_name
- question_text
- correct_response

This spreadsheet can then be used in a PsychoPy loop to ensure that all participants in a given condition receive the same 80 stimuli and that the order of presentation is randomized for each participant.